hello everybody it's jrobi today we're
going to be taking a look at the Danish
gambit as I learned my openings book
clients so the Danish gambit has been
around for quite a while it's not
exactly sure who came up with it but
it's usually attributed to the Danish
player Severin Fromm and he wrote an
essay about it apparently back in 1867
according to Wikipedia but what it is is
it's an opening that used to be very
popular with people who liked to play a
very aggressive attack based chess and
the gambit opening here starts with E
for so it starts with the King's pawn
move and from here the white offers up
d4 and black accepts white offers
another pawn on c3 black accepts and
then instead of taking this pawn with
either the knight or the pawn white
actually develops Bishop to c4 black
takes that last pawn threatening
promotion and forking the rook and the
bishop and white plays Bishop to b2 so
what you can see here now is White's
succeeded in developing its bishops
along these diagonals here so we've got
this bishop here and this bishop here
with open access and the queen is right
here to contribute to that attack so
very rapid piece development on on white
side whereas black really has only been
moving one pawn and all of its pieces
are still stationary so that's the book
line for the Danish gambit
now if the gambit is accepted from black
there's a number of possibilities that
could take place for example if black
were to play Knight to f6 white can just
come in now with E 5 attacking the
knight and forcing it to move again at
which point white can play f3 with its
knight black can come in with a check
and we can block with c3 black and
castle white can castle and then Knight
to c6 and Knight to d5 however in this
position pretty much all of whites
pieces are active and blacks bishop on
c8 here is completely completely trapped
in into the pawn structure still so you
know from this position really it
doesn't favor black at all another
variation of the Danish gambit is the
half Danish and this is actually
recommended by ala kine and the half
Danish goes as follows so the opening
sequence is pretty much identical
however at this stage instead of
developing the Bishop to c4 White would
play Knight Knight takes pawn on c3
right there so this is called the half
Danish now from this position here you
know looking at weights pieces there's a
lot of rapid development still available
to white here so we've got the bishop
open up here we've got the Queen with
three options and the bishop here with
options plus this Knight can impact a
lot of squares here so they're they're
near here on the attack so while black
would have to be plain pawn moves to
open up access to the majority of its
pieces because the black Bishop here is
really one of the only pieces along with
the Queen other than the Knights that
has access to the board and those
Knights have to be played out before
they can be of much use so white can
still develop a very rapid attack here
with the half Danish and of course Black
has a number of ways that it can avoid
the gambit all together for example the
following could take place so on move
three after the following instead of
taking that pawn on b2 what black can do
is play for example d5
so black plays d5 with the pawn okay and
this is called the Sorensen defense so
basically the gambits been stopped and
black can proceed to develop from this
point
another option is d6 on that same move
so for example right there
d6 so from here black can pretty much
develop normally and it's up to pawns
now another response to the Danish
gambit which Wikipedia cites is the
primary reason the Danish gambit lost
his popularity was thus Lester defense
and thus Lester defense goes as follows
black offers back upon now to white
after losing three of its own pawns
white takes with bishop and the bishop
here black from this position plays
Knight to f6 attacking the bishop and
the bishop comes in now and checks now
the King doesn't really have a lot of
options in this in this position for
example you could play here but what
this does is it just causes black to
lose the Queen outright without gaining
the White Queen back so it's a losing
position but part of the Celestra
defense is just to outright take this
bishop and from here white can take the
queen but there's a discovered attack on
the White King here and so White's Queen
is now gone as well
now if white were to play say for
example King moves it's a bad move for
white because white loses the Queen and
also develops the black rook at the same
time so even though the black king can't
castle its rook is developed here so it
the line goes as follows
but King takes bishop Queen takes Queen
discovered check and now white just
brings the Queen down to block the check
making black sacrifice that Bishop for
the exchange so at this point the
material is equal
however according to Wikipedia and just
by looking at the board some people say
that the queenside majority of blacks
pieces here give it an advantage so that
pretty much wraps up the book lines for
the Danish gambit opening just some
quick points at the end here the half
Danish can often lead to the goring
gambit by transposition we'll have to
take a look at the goring gambit some
day and the main line on the Danish
gambit can sometimes lead to the Scotch
gambit by transposition so it's a it's
an interesting opening it's definitely
gives white the capabilities of getting
a lot of attacks going but with the
Celestra defense it can be countered
quite quite well actually so what I'm
going to do is for the PGN version of
this I've been adding PGN files of all
the book moves for the openings that I'm
covering I'm going to have the Danish
opening with the Leicester defense so
you can go through the opening still but
you'll also have the slicer defense to
play around with on the PG info so take
care hope you enjoy the video